[heading]Disruptions to Abbott’s global supply chain, which is large and complex, could negatively affect Abbott’s results of operations[/heading]

 Abbott’s operations and performance depend on its ability to manage its large and complex global supply chain. The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to global supply chain disruptions, which have adversely impacted the cost and availability of certain raw materials, supplies, and services. While Abbott has taken actions to offset some of these inflationary pressures in its supply chain, Abbott may not be able to completely offset all the increases in its operational costs. Further, Abbott has experienced, and may continue to experience, availability issues with some services, operations, and materials used in its products. To date, Abbott has been able to manage the various supply chain challenges without significant supply disruption or shortage for services, raw materials and supplies. The future extent to which supply chain disruptions may have a material effect on Abbott’s operating results is uncertain. A more detailed discussion on the supply chain disruptions impact on Abbott’s business is contained in the “Financial Review” section in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report. 

[heading]Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.[/heading]

 From time to time, Abbott pursues acquisitions, licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business or transition disposed businesses efficiently, and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott’s credit rating, result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense, and decrease liquidity. 

[heading]Abbott depends on sophisticated information technology systems and maintains protected personal data, and a cyber attack or other breach affecting these information technology systems or protected data could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s results of operations.[/heading]

 Similar to other large multi-national companies, the size and complexity of the information technology systems on which Abbott relies for both its infrastructure and products make them susceptible to a cyber attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. These systems have been and are expected to continue to be the target of malware and other cyber attacks. In addition, third party hacking attempts may cause Abbott’s information technology systems and related products, protected data, or proprietary information to be compromised or stolen. A significant attack or other disruption could result in adverse consequences, including increased costs and expenses, manufacturing challenges or disruption, problems with product availability, functionality or safety, damage to customer relations, reputational damage, lost revenue, and legal or regulatory penalties. Abbott also collects, manages and processes protected personal data, including protected health information, in connection with certain medical products and service offerings. Abbott is subject to certain regional and local data protection laws that prohibit or restrict the transfer of protected data across country borders. For additional information concerning data privacy and security regulation, see the discussion in “Regulation” under Item 1, “Business.” A breach of protected personal information could result in adverse consequences, including regulatory inquiries or litigation, increased costs and expenses, reputational damage, lost revenue, and fines or penalties. Abbott invests in its systems and technology and in the protection of its products and data to reduce the risk of an attack or other significant disruption, and monitors its systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats or vulnerabilities and for changes in technology and the regulatory environment. There can be no assurance that these measures and efforts will prevent future attacks or other significant disruptions to any of the systems on which Abbott relies or that related product issues will not arise in the future. Similarly, there can be no assurance that third party information technology providers or other partners with whom Abbott contracts will not suffer a significant attack or disruption that impacts customers like Abbott. Any significant breach, attack or other disruption involving Abbott’s systems or products could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s business. 

[heading]Abbott’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott’s revenue and profitability to decline.[/heading]

 To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A risk of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested. Promising new products and technologies may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott’s existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry or regulatory standards, or competitors’ innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or technologies, or new indications or uses for existing products, may cause Abbott’s products or technologies to become obsolete, causing Abbott’s revenues and operating results to suffer. 

[heading]The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers or manufacturers encounters problems manufacturing products, Abbott’s business could suffer.[/heading]

 The manufacture of many of Abbott’s products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials or the global supply chain, failure to meet product specifications, cyber attacks, natural disasters, and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a lot or batch of product, those products may have to be discarded. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. Any of these events could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, reputational damage, time and expense spent investigating the cause and remediating the problem, if any, a production stoppage at a manufacturing facility, and depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other lots, batches or products. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers or manufacturers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and profitability. 

[heading]Abbott has significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business, including decreasing its business flexibility.[/heading]

 As of December 31, 2022, Abbott's consolidated indebtedness was approximately $16.8 billion. This consolidated indebtedness could have the effect, among other things, of reducing Abbott's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, and reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Further, Abbott may be required to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, future acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. Abbott's ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, Abbott's financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond Abbott's control. Consequently, Abbott cannot assure that it will be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to Abbott or at all, which could adversely impact Abbott's ability to make scheduled payments with respect to its consolidated indebtedness and its profitability and financial condition. Additionally, further borrowing could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit ratings. Abbott's credit ratings reflect each credit rating agency's then opinion of Abbott's financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet its debt obligations. Adverse changes in Abbott's credit ratings may result in increased borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term borrowing facilities and may limit financing options, including access to the unsecured borrowing market. Abbott may also be subject to additional restrictive covenants that would reduce flexibility. 